>> Richard Feldman: So to recap the things
we've talked about here, first,
we talked about strings and
how you can combine them.
So if we say the letter
"d" ++ String.fromInt 6,
that will give us the string d6.
If we have a let expression,
we can say, let x = 5 in x * 2.
We can put as many different values
that we want inside that let expression.
The entire expression evaluates
to what comes after in.
We saw some stuff with lists,
in particular list.map,
which is a useful way to transform a list
of one item into a list of another items.
So we saw how we can use that
with numbers, with strings, and
even with virtual DOM nodes.
Also lists have to have
a consistent type which prevents
run time exceptions that
can otherwise occur.
And finally, we saw a partial application.
We saw that when we called pluralize
passing "leaf" and "leaves".
That gives us back a new function, which
accepts the final argument that pluralize
wants and sort of finishes the job.
And as we'll see later,
partial application and List.map and
things like that can be
pretty useful together.
Any questions about any of this
before we get to the exercises?
>> Richard Feldman: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: I have some kind of somewhat
related generic questions on some of
this stuff.
So List.map,
I'm just curious that some languages,
they'll have a generic map.
And in Elm,
everything kind of has its own.
>> Richard Feldman: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just curious what's
the difference or decision there?
>> Richard Feldman: Some
languages will have a generic map,
whereas Elm has a special purpose one.
So this is really a question
of name resolution.
So in some languages,
you'll have, syntactically,
you'll just say the word, map.
You won't say List.map or Set.map,
or whatever the data structure is.
In both cases, they have different
implementations under the hood.
They may have been arrived at using
different amounts of code sharing.
But fundamentally, if you're going to
have a map function that works on a list,
you're gonna have a different map
function that works on a set,
cuz those are different data structures.
In Elm sort of the style is encouraged is
to write everything out explicitly and
say like this is a List.map.
It's gonna work on a list.
This is a Set.map.
It's gonna work on a set.
Whereas in other languages they have
different name resolution mechanisms that
potentially let you just say map and
then maybe you're passing in a sent,
maybe you're passing in a list.
But it may be even in the same module.
But basically the reason for this is is
it's sort of a has to do with sort of
the design sensibilities around Elm.
So, as an example like
Haskell's a language where
it's a different design set.
It's like in Haskell it's encouraged to
only use a map and Haskell supports that.
Elm's compiler was written in Haskell but
Evan decided to go a different
direction than that.
>> Speaker 2: So like, under the hood
a list, does it actually compile
to something in JavaScript that enforces
that the types within it are the same?
>> Richard Feldman: No, no-
>> Speaker 2: We said, no,
the compiler knows, okay,
I have already checked, so
it can just be an array under the hood.
>> Richard Feldman: So
the question was does Elm's compiler
actually emit something that verifies
in the compiled JavaScript that
the contents of the list are all the same?
Or, is that only a compile time check?
It's only a compile time check.
However it does not actually compile
to literally a JavaScript array.
It compiles to a linked list,
an immutable linked list in JavaScript,
which is not represented as
a plain JavaScript array.
So it has different characteristics as far
as how expensive it is to add things to
the beginning versus the end versus
looking something up in the middle.
So it's just implementation details that
matters from a performance perspective but
not from how you actually use
it if you're just worried about
will things break or not?
The compile checks are enough.
>> Speaker 2: So are there any things
like that that it compiles to where
like newer language features or
something are gonna.
I'm just kinda curious if browser
target is a thing that we would ever
want to care about with Elm cuz
we would get less, or something?
>> Richard Feldman: Browser target
is a thing that you would care about
within Elm.
Sorry, I don't really follow that.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Like, if it compiled to some
newer language feature in JavaScript
that was better or something?
>> Richard Feldman: Got it.
So right now Elm targets mostly ES3.
It compiles to ES3 compatible JavaScript.
It doesn't, with the exception of,
I think there's request animation frame
and some of stuff that's like ES5.
But, the question is like sort of in the
long term, do you have to worry about Elm
compiling to stuff that's not
backward compatible, etc.
Honestly, I wouldn't worry
about that with JavaScript.
However, Elm is explicitly designed
to compile to WebAssembly someday.
WebAssembly's not really ready for it yet.
It still needs a garbage collector and
some stuff like that.
But we’ve been talking with Mozilla folks
on several occasions about
how that would work.
Not only is it designed to be
able to compile to WebAssembly,
but it’s designed to be able
to compile to WebAssembly with
all of your existing JavaScript
interrupt continuing to work.
JavaScript interrupt,
not WebAssembly interrupt.
So, the idea is that based on the current
design, you could, in some release,
download a patch release of Elm,
where now Elm compiles to WebAssembly and
everything's just absurdly faster and
smaller.
But all of your existing code still works,
exactly the same way as it did before,
including your JavaScript interrupt.
So backwards compatibility is something
that Elm takes pretty seriously as far as
browsers go.
And generally the design is to try and
make it as compatible as with
as many older browser features
as possible, sort of by default.
And not to use any newer browser features,
unless there's really no other alternative
to get that particular thing done.